## Code of Conduct

Node.js exists to facilitate software development, by making it easy for
JavaScript and C++ developers to build and share applications.

Node.js is more than a collection of C, C++, and JavaScript source files; first
and foremost it is a community of like-minded developers.

We believe that our mission is best served in an environment that is
friendly, safe, and accepting; free from intimidation or harassment.

Towards this end, certain behaviors and practices will not be tolerated.

## Summary

* Be respectful.
* We're here to help. Contact one of the following:
  * <x1@y.z>
  * <x2@y.z>
  * <x3@y.z>
  * <x4@y.z>
* Abusive behavior is never tolerated.
* All contributions to Node.js are included at the discretion of the Node.js
  Technical Committee, and may be removed, rejected, or altered at their
  discretion.
* Violations of this code may result in swift and permanent expulsion
  from the Node.js community.

## Scope

We expect all Node.js Technical Committee members and Node.js contributors,
including paid and unpaid agents, administrators, and users, to abide by this
Code of Conduct at all times in all Node.js community venues, online and in
person, and in one-on-one communications pertaining to Node.js affairs.

This policy covers the usage of the [Node.js GitHub
repository](https://github.com/joyent/node) and issue tracker, as well as the
Node.js website, Node.js-related events, and any other services offered by or
on behalf of the Node.js project (collectively, the "Project"). It also applies
to behavior in the context of Project communities, including but not limited to
IRC channels, social media, mailing lists, and public events.

This Code of Conduct is in addition to, and does not in any way nullify or
invalidate, any other terms or conditions related to use of the Project.

The definitions of various subjective terms such as "discriminatory",
"hateful", or "confusing" will be decided at the sole discretion of the
Project team.

## Maintaining a Welcoming Community

We are committed to providing a friendly, safe and welcoming environment for
all, regardless of gender, sexual orientation, disability, ethnicity, religion,
age, physical appearance, body size, race, nationality, language ability, or
similar personal characteristics.

Please be kind and courteous. There's no need to be mean or rude.

Please respect that differences of opinion are commmon when it comes to
technical choices, and that every design or implementation choice carries a
trade-off and numerous costs. There is seldom a single right answer. A
difference of opinion over technology preferences is not a license to be rude.

Please remember that all developers were once new developers. Maintaining high
standards for the Project is important, but so is not belittling others'
work.

Please keep unstructured critique to a minimum. If you have ideas you want to
experiment with, make a fork and see how it works.

Please avoid using overtly sexual nicknames or other nicknames that might
detract from a friendly, safe and welcoming environment for all.

Please avoid the use of personal pronouns in code comments or documentation.
There is no need to address individuals when explaining code (e.g. "When the
developer").

## Harrassment

Harassment includes, but is not limited to: harmful or prejudicial verbal or
written comments related to gender identity, sexual orientation, disability,
ethnicity, religion, age, physical appearance, body size, race, or similar
personal characteristics; inappropriate use of nudity, sexual images, and/or
sexually explicit language in public spaces; threats of physical or
non-physical harm; deliberate intimidation, stalking, or following; harassing
photography or recording; sustained disruption of talks or other events;
inappropriate physical contact; and unwelcome sexual attention.

We will exclude you from interaction if you insult, demean or harass anyone.
That is not welcome behavior. In addition, any spamming, trolling, flaming,
baiting, or other attention-stealing behavior is not welcome, and will not be
tolerated. In particular, we don't tolerate behavior that excludes members of
socially marginalized groups.

Private harassment is also unacceptable. No matter who you are, if you feel you
have been or are being harassed or made uncomfortable by a community member,
please contact one of the channel ops or any of the contacts listed above with
a capture (log, photo, email) of the harassment, if possible.  Whether you're a
regular contributor or a newcomer, we care about making this community a safe
place for you, and we've got your back.

## Reporting Violations of this Code of Conduct

If you believe someone is harassing you or has otherwise violated this Code of
Conduct, please contact one of the team members listed in "Contact Info" to
send us an abuse report. If this is the initial report of a problem, please
include as much detail as possible. It is easiest for us to address issues when
we have more context.

## Consequences

All contributions to the Project are incorporated at the sole discretion of the
Project administrators.

Unacceptable behavior from any community member, including sponsors, employees
of companies with representatives on the Technical Committee, customers, or
others with decision-making authority, will not be tolerated.

Anyone asked by Project Administrators to stop unacceptable behavior is
expected to comply immediately.

If a community member engages in unacceptable behavior, the Project
administrators may take any action they deem appropriate, up to and including a
temporary ban or permanent expulsion from the community without warning (and
without refund in the case of a paid event or service).

## Addressing Grievances

If you feel you have been falsely or unfairly accused of violating this Code of
Conduct, you should notify the abuse team (see "contact info"), the Node.js
Technical Committee or the Node.js Advisory Board. We will do our best to
ensure that your grievance is handled appropriately.

In general, we will choose the course of action that we judge as being most in
the interest of fostering a safe and friendly community.

## Contact Info

Please contact an abuse team member if you need to report a problem or address
a grievance related to an abuse report.

You are also encouraged to contact us if you are curious about something that
might be "on the line" between appropriate and inappropriate content.  We are
happy to provide guidance to help you be a successful part of our community.

The current abuse team members are:

  * <x1@y.z>
  * <x2@y.z>
  * <x3@y.z>
  * <x4@y.z>

## Changes

This is a living document and may be updated from time to time.  Please refer
to the [git history for this
document](https://github.com/joyent/nodejs-advisory-board/conduct.md) to view
the changes.

## Credit and License

This Code of Conduct borrows heavily from the Stumptown Syndicate [Citizen's
Code of Conduct](http://citizencodeofconduct.org/), the [Rust Project Code of
Conduct](https://github.com/mozilla/rust/wiki/Note-development-policy#conduct),
and the [npm, Inc. Code of Conduct](http://www.npmjs.com/policies/conduct/).

This document may be reused under a [Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike
License](http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/).
