# Node.js Foundation Advisory Board Meeting
July 13, 2015
2:00pm PDT
via Go To Meeting

## Attendees

Mikeal Rogers (MR)
Scott Nicholas (SN)
Gianugo Rabellino (GR)
Todd Moore (TM)
Todd Benzies (TB)
Travis Odom (TO)
Christopher Case (CC)
Trevor Norris (TN)
Danese Cooper (DC)
Dan Shaw (DS)
Trevor Livingston (TL)
Isaac Roth (IR)
Bert Belder (BB)

## Linux Foundation Update from Scott Nicholas
Concluding the voting period for election of Silver Director tonight, will send an announcement shortly thereafter.
Gold election is complete -- Charlie Robbins, GoDaddy
Mikeal Rogers has joined LF as Community Manager -- welcome!  A more formal announcement will be coming soon.
Once Silver elections are complete, the next board meeting will be scheduled and an ongoing cadence will be established.
DC:  Mondays have been working well.
SN:  What about the group using _this_ time slot on the alternating weeks?
No objections to this, however:
7/20 many on way to OSCON
8/3 too far out
Tentative to use 7/27 at this time

## Open Discussion
TM: What immediate tasks do we need to take up?
DC:  Going over committees and figure out which go into Board?
??:  Plan or committee for getting an event going?
DC:  Start another event or just work within existing event structure?
??:  Suggestion for a more business focused event.
TM:  This can be a question to Marketing committee
??:  There should be a Foundation-backed event that should be the hub.
DC:  My experience is there are no events that are organized by a community… normally there are a few people taking the lead.  Last year, Node gave blessing to the big event in San Francisco, rather than try to create their own.
SN:  Variety of services LF can provide w/ respect to hosting and putting on a conference… complete turnkey services
DC:  In nearterm if we were to do 2015 or early 2016 -- pick a conference (i.e. Node Summit), and Foundation can graft business track on.
MR:  Node Summit may or may not make sense for a variety of reasons.  Need to talk with Charles to see where things stand for the next Summit.
DC:  Doesn’t have to be Node Summit, can be a different event.
DS:  Charles (Node Summit organizer) is interested in running Node Summit 2016.
??:  Get ideas from Marketing team and then bring it to LF events team for recommendations.
SN:  What time window is being considered?
DC:  First half 2016.
DC:  As Board members become better known, they will get asked to appear at regional events.  Worth getting together a golden pitch about what the Foundation is.
??:  Build infrastructure needs to get transitioned.
MR:  Isn’t it all donated hardware?
??:  True for Node.js as well?
MR:  Intention was to put Node.js on io.js infra.
BB:  Alexis is working on this.
TM:  As it relates to standards bodies, Foundations often set up a liaison (acting on behalf of Foundation, not individual or company).  MR to think about a person that could be a good fit.
